## APIs and Github
Digital technologies are changing the way the academic world interacts. Especially when it comes to digital tools and infrastructure. For a study such as European Studies digital tools are changing the way knowledge is produced, shared and criticized. Two key concepts are central in these developments and are expanded on in the paragraphs below. 
### APIs 
Application Programming Interfaces (APIs) are defined as “a set of functions and procedures that allow the creation of applications which access the features or data of an operating system, application, or other service, enabling third parties to use the functionality of that software application”. (ScienceDirect, 2025) In summary, APIs act as a connecting layer between two different programs or systems, giving them the option to exchange data and functionalities. The API is able to provide multiple functions, procedures and protocols that decide which actions a client can perform when interacting with software components. APIs provide the connection between provider and end user that “allow modular pieces of functionally to be incorporated”, ranging from “a single function to hundreds of classes, methods, data types, enumerations, and constants, with implementations that may be proprietary or open source”. (ScienceDirect, 2025) The underlying implementation is explicitly restricted in order to support modularity, reusability and safe access. In contemporary software structures that have standardized interfaces communicate over networks, APIs are the foundation that allow this to take place. From an academic perspective, APIs provide an increased compatibility between different systems that allow for complex software infrastructures to be built. As a European Studies student, EU documentation can easily be accessed through APIs. This ease of access to whole databases of documents significantly increases the research scopes that are possible within our academic discipline. An example of the usage of API can be found at the top of the website. You can ask the athletes for advice, the response is an API driven output that shows nothing on the backend, and only gives the end-user the desired information. 
### Github
Github is a web-based platform that allows shared software development and version changes to be done in an open source and effective way. The platform combines Git repositories with social and organizational functionalities that has made it become a favourite amongst software developers. Github provides researchers and developers the opportunity to save source codes, documentation and other data in distributed repositories. Every iteration and change to the repository is saved, improving reproducibility and transparency. Different users are able to contribute to different projects and can send branch and pull requests, in order to create parallel developments, whilst stimulating community building projects in open source projects. Discussions on the direction of projects and if different branches should be formed can always be had in the main branch of development. (Alrashedy & Binjahlan, 2024) A good example of what students of European Studies can use github for is the [EU Veto tracker](https://michalovadek.github.io/eu-veto-tracker/). (Ovadek, 2025) This website hosts its data and source code on github. The data provided allows for the tracking of different EU member states’ veto behaviour and tracks the amount of times member states have used their veto. This data allows for different kinds of research to be collected and analysed. An interesting thing to note is that the website has gone dormant and did not receive any updates in the last half year. In case someone is willing to update the required data with new entries, they would not have to build an entire website from scratch in order to facilitate the updates. Since the original website was built on github. All the starting blocks are in place to easily recreate a similar concept. This highlights the reproducibility aspect that github provides with its open source platform.
