## Field of study
There are two academic fields that are relevant to cover with regards to the implementation of digital technologies in *my field of study*. Having completed a bachelor in history, this is the first academic field covered. The second field is in European studies. The [International Bachelor of History](https://www.eur.nl/en/bachelor/international-bachelor-history) in Rotterdam was considered part of the History, Culture and Communication faculty and the [Master European Studies](https://masters.au.dk/europeanstudies) in Aarhus is part of the Arts faculty. (Erasmus University Rotterdam, 2025; Aarhus University, 2025) Both of these faculties and disciplines can be found somewhere in between the humanities and social sciences. However, when it comes to research and the increased complexity of digital technologies both disciplines have followed a similar trajectory. Contemporary datasets have evolved significantly over the last decades, and are currently conceivably composed of social media data, digitised corpora and rich digital multimodal data. This evolution requires limited knowledge of all aspects of the datasets, such as hardware, software, data formats, interwoven configuration and dependencies. (Housley et al., 2023)
### History
History is a discipline associated with archives and libraries, except modern historians might have never set foot in either of them. A library is more likely to have been visited, although probably to find some calmness and study on a laptop rather than to open a physical book. Modern historians don’t have the need to physically visit archives anymore since a significant amount of archives have done a great job at digitizing their data. A great example of this is the digital archive [Delpher](https://www.delpher.nl/nl/kranten) that has made every Dutch newspaper from 1618 until 1995 publicly available online. (Delpher, 2025) These kinds of digitized databases provide significant value to various academic disciplines and increase the ease and opportunities of researchers interacting with databases. However, there are also downsides to the digitalization of archives. Because digital archives are so much cheaper to maintain compared to physical archives, over the long run, it is questioned whether physical archives will be preserved into the future. (Custer, 2014) Digital archives cannot run into issues if physical archives stop receiving funding. Taking away the ability to provide source materials upon being questioned, affects the legitimacy of the empirical discipline of History. These fears aside, the digitalization of archival data has transformed the discipline in a positive way. Access to information has improved and this increased the efficiency of doing research in the discipline. Once the information has been accessed, modern historians can start utilizing the new tools in their arsenal:
- Text mining
- Topic modeling
- Visualizing data

(Ebbrecht-Hartmann et al., 2023a; Ebbrecht-Hartmann et al., 2023b)
### European Studies
For European Studies, digital technologies have allowed a variety of documents to become digitally available. This has increased the availability and ease with which researchers are able to use EU documentation for research. The available digital documents range from policy documents to EU law, and from parliamentary debates to media coverage. The availability of these documents allows researchers to discover European discourse and public opinion at a large scale and over long periods through computational and comparative analysis. In European studies one can also look at the digital platforms themselves, the power they have, and the role the EU plays in regulating these platforms. An example of a significant cultural project that has been launched in order to promote the strengthening of a sense of European Identity, is [Europeana](https://www.europeana.eu/en). (Europeana, 2025) The database collects content from many different institutions and congregates them into an easy to use collection for cultural research. Funded by the European Commission, the initiative’s aim is to digitalize the cultural heritage sector, improving the ability to use European cultural heritage for research and education. Looking at european from a more political standpoint, text analysis tools provide a way to code and analyse large quantities of political speeches, eu documents and social media data. Qualitative data analysis tools provide the ability to perform discourse analysis on a large scale. On top of all the different digital technologies that have become available in recent decades, digital polling- and opinion data is frequently used in ongoing research in the academic field of European Studies. (Zaagsma, 2023)
