## Website Explainer
In the following paragraphs, the making of the website is explained. First, there is a short overview of the different languages used, and in what capacity they are utilized. Second, is the explanations for content and stylistic choices of the website. There has been a deliberate choice not to go too much into the coding details for every choice. There is more focus provided on the personal choices made in building the website. This is done because the coding details can be seen in the files that are visible on Github. 


### Markdown, HTML and CSS
Over the weeks following the Digital Technologies in the Humanities course, students had to adapt to three different ways of writing. Markdown, HyperText Markup Language (HTML) and Cascading Style Sheets (CSS). Since the technical submission requires knowledge of all three, following the course structure and checking the provided resources helped to gather an understanding. Markdown is a simple, readable text format that has some characters performing certain functions. It allows for authors to quickly write a structured document that can be used in different spaces without having to understand more complex codes. HTML functions as the standard for the structure of webpages, it defines headers, paragraphs and lists for example. Since most of my writing was already written in Markdown, I used an online converter to change my texts into HTML in order for it to be shown correctly on my website. CSS is used to provide a style for the website. it allows the visual aspects of the text to be changed. This makes layout, colours, alignment, and responses upon clicks or hovers to be programmed. Together, all three of these languages are able to form a system that makes it possible to create my first website. 


### Functions
In order to go a bit further into the decisions I have made with regards to my first website, several things will be explained in this paragraph. In order to give the website a bit of personal flair, some aspects of website building have not been done in the most beautiful or the most effective way. But due to personal preference and capabilities, choices have been made in order to produce a website to my liking. We have been practicing several aspects of website building in exercises in class during the course. This has formed the base understanding of working with different software programs and different languages to make the software do what we want. The first thing that was worked on during the course once we got to trying out building our websites, was the header. This is an essential part of most websites and mine is not unique in that sense. However, I wanted my website to be unique and therefore I landed on quite a dashing theme. Bright yellow and purple. This is due to being inspired by a movie that I loved as a teenager. Located in the body part of HTML, my Header consists of the following elements. An < h1> heading, < p> some text , < container> an image and finally < button>< script> a button that runs my API. The < h1> heading has been styled to have a beautiful yellow colour on a purple background in combination with a large font. The text < p> below it gives some context to the dashing theme colours that should be explained early on the website. Finally, the picture completes the package that justifies the thematic colour scheme. Peer reviews of my website have commented on the theme being “eye watering” and “an interesting choice”. However, art is subjective and personal choices give static websites some character. Uploading the image onto the website was relatively straightforward once the container function was explained in class. The final part of my header required more knowledge. The button that is aligned centrally on the bottom of the header, runs a script that receives advice from an API. The API consulted for this is the [Advice slip API](https://api.adviceslip.com/advice).
The script that runs the API has been provided in the course content and in class exercises. Since most of my writing was done in markdown and the website was built in HTML, it was easy to use an online converter and make my text compatible with the given format. The main part of the text was filled in with converted markdown text into HTML. Some stylistic choices were made with regards to the < h2> and < h3> headers in order for the thematic style of the website to be consistent. therefore they have a purple background colour and a yellow text colour. For the list of references, I made the stylistic choice that a flexbox could be used for the list. With some tampering to the code provided in the course content, I managed to make the flexbox direction a column. This was done in order to better symbolize a traditional bibliography. The final elements on my website are another picture, another button and the footer. The final picture symbolizes the end of the website and the finish is in sight. The final button takes the user towards the IMDb page of the movie that inspired the theme of the website. Finally, the footer is providing text on who the website is built by and has a right alignment on the webpage. 
